Dispatcher: Toronto ambulance, where do you need us?
Caller: Hi, 582 Dovercourt Road.
Dispatcher: Just please repeat that for verification?
Caller: 582 Dovercourt Road.
Dispatcher: And what's the closest major intersection over there?
Caller: Uh, Bloor and Ossington.
Dispatcher: Okay, and is that a house or an apartment?
Caller: Uh, it's we're in an apartment in a house, it's the second floor, middle doorbell.
Dispatcher: Second floor, okay. And is there a like a specific uh like apartment number or just on the second floor?
Caller: Hello?
Dispatcher: Apartment 2.
Caller: Apartment 2.
Dispatcher: Yeah.
Dispatcher: Okay. And what's the phone number you're calling from just in case we get disconnected?
Caller: It's 4, sorry, 416-768-1627.
Dispatcher: Okay, tell me exactly what happened.
Caller: So my husband has been having a lot of leg pain recently, uh, and quite severe, um, but he did ride his bicycle today, and just as he got uh home, he fell off, and has been in extreme pain ever since. Um, so to the he can't stand up, which is why we're calling an ambulance normally we'd just get in a taxi. But he's unable to stand.
Dispatcher: Okay, I'll get some help started for you, okay? I'm just going to ask you some standard questions. Are you with him now?
Caller: Yes.
Dispatcher: How old is he?
Caller: He's 62.
Dispatcher: Okay, is he awake?
Caller: He's awake. Yeah, he's con he's conscious.
Dispatcher: Okay, is he breathing?
Caller: Yes.
Dispatcher: Okay, radio, you're not required. Just some more standard questions. When did this happen?
Caller: Yeah.
Caller: Sorry?
Dispatcher: When did this happen?
Caller: Uh about 45 minutes ago.
Dispatcher: Okay.
Caller: So he got our neighbor helped him upstairs, he had to come upstairs sitting down, because he couldn't stand, and he's just been lying on the floor.
Dispatcher: Okay.
Caller: So we realized that he's...
Dispatcher: Pardon?
Dispatcher: Is there any serious bleeding?
Caller: No, no bleeding at all.
Dispatcher: Okay.
Caller: No, no nothing it's all seems to be internal.
Dispatcher: Okay, is he responding normally?
Caller: Uh, yes, he he's fine. He did take a couple of because he went to the doctor for this leg issue a couple of days ago.
Dispatcher: Right.
Caller: The doctor did prescribe some painkillers, he took a couple of those when he got home, which I think have kicked in a little bit, but he's in a lot of pain and unable to stand.
Dispatcher: Okay, I understand. And I know you mentioned he had uh leg issues, but when he fell, what part of the body was injured?
Caller: He fell onto his left leg which is the leg that he's been having problems with.
Dispatcher: Okay. And is it like the upper leg or...
Caller: It's yeah it's hip and hip down to the knee.
Dispatcher: Okay. And is it obviously bent out of shape?
Caller: Uh, well it's it's I don't think it looks any different after the fall today but it is it has been quite swollen.
Dispatcher: Okay. So I am sending the paramedics to help you now, I just want you to stay on the line and I'll tell you exactly what to do next, okay?
Caller: Sure.
Dispatcher: Just in the meantime, don't move him unless he's in danger and don't splint any injuries. Can I just get your first name?
Caller: Sorry, I didn't get that. What's your name?
Caller: Laurel, L-A-U-R-E-L.
Dispatcher: Okay Laurel, just give me one second while I update the medics for you, okay?
Caller: Thank you.
Dispatcher: Okay so in the meantime Laurel, just reassure him that we do have help on the way, okay?
Caller: Okay.
Dispatcher: Now on, don't let him have anything to eat or drink, it might make him sick or cause further problems. And don't move him unless it's absolutely necessary, just tell him to be still and wait for help to arrive, okay?
Caller: Yeah, we won't move him. Um, we think that he maybe on um, he also has cancer. And uh he was on a high dose of steroids for a certain period. Um because of an episode, and so it may be that the the pain, initial pain may have been caused by steroid withdrawal, and then he's just exacerbated everything else that by falling today.
Dispatcher: Okay, I understand. Okay just some further instructions for you. So I do have the call up.
Caller: Pardon me?
Dispatcher: So I do have the call up, and ambulances will be sent to you as one becomes available. Our goal is to arrive within the hour but it may take longer. Uh, but it also may take sooner, just depends uh when an ambulance is available. But in the meantime, I just want you to watch him very closely. If he becomes less awake and vomits, quickly lay him on his side. And before the responders arrive...
Caller: Yeah I don't think he's he's not had any nausea, um, he's really other than the pain in his leg, um, he's feeling he's feeling okay, no nausea, no vomiting, um no feeling ill, it's really just the pain in his leg.
Dispatcher: Okay, understand. And just uh before the responders arrive, if uh if you have any pets, just please put them away. Gather his medications or just a list of his medications is fine.
Caller: Yes, I've got a list of his medications.
Dispatcher: Okay. And unlock the door and just confirm it's you're in apartment 2 and that's on the second floor?
Caller: That's right.
Dispatcher: Okay. Alright Laurel, if he gets worse in any way, just uh give us a call back immediately on 911, okay?
Caller: Alright, thank you so much.
Dispatcher: No worries. Take care. Bye bye.
Caller: Okay, thank you. Bye bye.